In this project I recreated a simplified version of Pizza Hut. I do happen to like pizza hut but that wasn't the real reason I picked this site. I thought about how I could implement JavaScript into a site and some type of ecommerce or restaurant came to mind because of the ability to map over data to create cards for the menu, implementing a cart (that was what I focused on in the JavaScript file), or sending off catering requests. Since the main focus of this project was JavaScript, didn't spend a ton of time making the site pretty but I did my best at least making it reponsize and giving an idea of what It would look like, using a few lines of CSS and Bootstrap. In my index.js file however is where I tried to focus more of my time on, creating some functions to create a functional cart. I started by creating a fake Database of pizzas that are objects with relevant info like an id, a price, and a name. I used .find to basically find the pizza with the id that is being targeted and push it into an array that represents the cart along with the quantity of pizzas. I also added some conditionals to check if the pizza exists (if the id of the pizza exists) and if it doesn't to log that there is no pizza with that id. I also made sure to add some logic to update the quantity of pizzas in case you add the same pizza to the cart. In the finding the total function I used the reduce function which was perfect in this situation for reducing the price down to the total instead of a bunch of different prices, basically taking the price times the quantity of each pizza and adding them together to create a total and then returning both the cart with all the pizzas and the total. I also created a forEach loop to cycle over data in a JSON file that will dyncamically create cards for each pizza in the menu.
